---
editor_options: 
  markdown: 
    wrap: 72
---

# Deviation in United States' Water Quality: Project Proposal

## Code name: *Contributors: Anumita Basani (Anumitab\@uw.edu), Diya Kumaran   (Diyak2\@uw.edu), Eddy Wong (Eddyw206\@hotmail.com), Daniel Zhang (Danielz6\@uw.edu)*

### *INFO-201: Technical Foundations of Informatics - The Information School - University of Washington*

### *Autumn 2022*

### **Abstract**

-   \|Abstract \| Write a short abstract of three sentences. Your
    abstract should summarize your entire project, but only the very
    most important aspects. Here are two examples of how you might
    structure your abstract: **(1)** "Our main question is .... This
    question is important because .... To address the question, we will
    ...." and **(2)** "We are concerned with ..., because .... To
    address this concern, we plan to ...." \| \|Keywords \| 3-5 keywords
    that summarize your project. (e.g., "Keywords: human physiology;
    bicycle exercise; elderly; power and heart rate times-series data")
    \| \|Introduction \| Briefly introduce your project. (About 150
    words.)

### **Problem Domain**

-    \|Problem Domain \| Use short sub-sections to describe your topic
    and the setting (that is, the sociotechnical situation), including
    project framing, human values, direct and indirect stakeholders,
    possible harms and benefits. See the Design Brief, section B.3.
    **Note**: You *must* include three citations to related work (URLs
    to similar work, high quality articles from the popular press,
    reseach papers, etc. ). You may find it helpful to include a figure.
    (About 400 words.) \|

### Research Questions

-   \|Research Questions \| Present your 3-5 research questions. You
    should present each research question. For each research question,
    you should discuss why it is important and what motivates the
    question. (About 50 words for each question, so for four questions
    you would write about 200 words or more if needed.)

### The Dataset

This data set provides global population data that has access to safe
and managed drinking water. This is related to our research question,
\"What factors cause the state of the water quality in the US?\", as it
shows what factors are involved in each country for their current water
access/quality. The data set is provided/collected by WHO/UNICEF Joint
Monitoring Programme (JMP) for Water Supply and Sanitation. The JMP
database has 5,000+ national data sources with information on WASH. This
includes nationally representative household surveys, censuses and
administrative reports. This data set includes data starting from the
year 2000 to 2020. Its purpose is to show global statistics of water
access and how they differ in different regions of the world.The JMP\'s
four main objectives for collecting data is as it states on their
official website, \"The JMP strategy comprises four main objectives
which include consolidating its normative function and its role as a
global custodian of WASH data, further strengthening country support,
and promoting a more integrated approach to monitoring WASH and related
issues in collaboration with other agencies.\" The JMP is the leading
source when it comes to comparing estimates of progress at the global,
national and regional levels and also has a very extensive database
covering the globe which makes the JMP a very credible source for data.\

| **Data Set**           | **\# of Rows** | **\# of Columns** | **URL**                                   |
|------------------------|----------------|-------------------|-------------------------------------------|
| Global Access to Water | 5070           | 8                 | <https://ourworldindata.org/water-access> |

### Limitations

-   \|Limitations \| Proposal only. What limitations might you need to
    address? Briefly discuss. (About 150 words.) \|

### Findings

-   \|*Findings* \| *Not for the project proposal; for final report
    only. Give answers to each of your research questions. (About 400
    words.)* \|

### Discussion

-   \|*Discussion* \| *Not for the project proposal; for final report
    only. Discuss importance and/or implications of your findings (About
    400 words.)* \|

### Conclusion

-   \|*Conclusion* \| *Not for the project proposal; for final report
    only. Give the reader a summary point, the key point that you will
    like your audience to leave with. (About 400 words.)* \|

### Acknowledgements

-   \|Acknowledgements \| Is there anyone you would like to thank? A
    librarian who helped you with your research? A Teaching Assistant? A
    friend who helped you find your data? Say thank you in this
    section.\| \|References \| Include your three or more research
    citations here. Also, include citations to your data files. Please
    use a standard citation style of your choice. See [Citing
    Sources](https://guides.lib.uw.edu/research/citations) at the UW
    Library. \| \|Appendix A: Questions\| Do you have questions for your
    TA or instructor? Include them here.\|
